100daysofcloud/README.md, before:

# 🚀 Kicking Off My **100DaysOfCloud** Journey!

![Screenshot 2025-12-12 091431](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2b797ae3-bdcf-467c-8dda-7dd112a53c9a)

Over the next 100 days, I’ll be diving deep into Cloud, DevOps, AWS, automation, and real-world hands-on labs.

Every day will bring:

* 🌩️ New lessons
* 🧩 A few challenges
* 📘 New concepts learned
* 📝 A daily update you can count on

This repository/thread will track my progress in a clean, open-source documentation style.
Follow along, learn with me, or even join the challenge!

---

## 📚 **Daily Progress Tracker**

| Day     | Topic / Task                                   | Status | Link         |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------ |
| Day 1   | Create Key Pair                                               | ✔️     | [Day 001](./Day_001:_Create_Key_Pair.md)   |
| Day 2   | Create Security Group                                         | ✔️     | [Day 002](./Day_002:_Create_Security_Group.md)   |
| Day 3   | Create Security Group                                         | ✔️     | [Day_003](./Day_002:_Create_Security_Group.md)   |
| Day 4   | Allocate Elastic IP                                           | ✔️     | [Day_004](./Day_004:_Allocate_Elastic_IP.md)   |
| Day 5   | Create GP3 Volume                                             | ✔️     | [Day_005](./Day_005:_Create_GP3_Volume.md)   |
| Day 6   | Launch EC2 Instance                                           | ✔️     | [Day_006](./Day_006:_Launch_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 7   | Change EC2 Instance Type                                      | ✔️     | [Day_007](./Day_007:_Change_EC2_Instance_Type.md)   |
| Day 8   | Enable Stop Protection for EC2 Instance                       | ✔️     | [Day_008](./Day_008:_Enable_Stop_Protection_for_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 9   | Enable Termination Protection for EC2 Instance                | ✔️     | [Day_009](./Day_009:_Enable_Termination_Protection_for_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 10  | Attach Elastic IP to EC2 Instance                             | ✔️     | [Day_010](./Day_010:_Attach_Elastic_IP_to_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 11  | Attach Elastic Network Interface to EC2 Instance              | ✔️     | [Day_011](./Day_011:_Attach_Elastic_Network_Interface_to_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 12  | Attach Volume to EC2 Instance                                 | ✔️     | [Day_012](./Day_012:_Attach_Volume_to_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 13  | Create AMI from EC2 Instance                                  | ✔️     | [Day_013](./Day_013:_Create_AMI_from_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 14  | Terminate EC2 Instance                                        | ✔️     | [Day_014](./Day_014:_Terminate_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 15  | Create Volume Snapshot                                        | ✔️     | [Day_015](./Day_015:_Create_Volume_Snapshot.md)   |
| Day 16  | Create IAM User                                               | ✔️     | [Day_016](./Day_016:_Create_IAM_User.md)   |
| Day 17  | Create IAM Group                                              | ✔️     | [Day_017](./Day_017:_Create_IAM_Group.md)   |
| Day 18  | Create Read-Only IAM Policy for EC2 Console Access            | ✔️     | [Day_018](./Day_018:_Create_Read-Only_IAM_Policy_for_EC2_Console_Access.md)   |
| Day 19  | Attach IAM Policy to IAM User                                 | ✔️     | [Day_019](./Day_019:_Attach_IAM_Policy_to_IAM_User.md)   |
| Day 20  | Create IAM Role for EC2 with Policy Attachment                | ✔️     | [Day_020](./Day_020:_Create_IAM_Role_for_EC2_with_Policy_Attachment.md)   |
| Day 21  | Setting Up an EC2 Instance with an Elastic IP for Application Hosting    | ✔️     | [Day_021](./Day_021:_Setting_Up_an_EC2_Instance_with_an_Elastic_IP_for_Application_Hosting.md)   |
| Day 22  | Configuring Secure SSH Access to an EC2 Instance              | ✔️     | [Day_022](./Day_022:_Configuring_Secure_SSH_Access_to_an_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 23  | Data Migration Between S3 Buckets Using AWS CLI               | ✔️     | [Day_023](./Day_023:_Data_Migration_Between_S3_Buckets_Using_AWS_CLI.md)   |
| Day 24  | Setting Up an Application Load Balancer for an EC2 Instance   | ✔️     | [Day 024](./Day_024:_Setting_Up_an_Application_Load_Balancer_for_an_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 25  | Setting Up an EC2 Instance and CloudWatch Alarm               | ✔️     | [Day_025](./Day_025:_Setting_Up_an_EC2_Instance_and_CloudWatch_Alarm.md)   |
| ...     | ...                                                           | ...    | ...          |
| Day 100 | TBD                                                           | ⏳      | [Day 100](#) |

> 🔗 *Links will be updated daily as I complete each task.*

---

## 🛠️ **Main Learning Areas**

* AWS Cloud Fundamentals
* Linux, Networking, IAM, VPC
* Compute, Storage & Databases
* Containers (Docker) & Orchestration
* CI/CD, GitHub Actions
* Infrastructure Automation
* Monitoring, Logging & Cloud Security
* Hands-on Labs from **KodeKloud**



## 🔥 **Follow My Journey**
* 🌐 **Blog :** [Dev.to](https://dev.to/hritikraj8804)

## ⚡ Let’s Go!

Excited to learn, build, break things (intentionally 😄), fix them, and grow every single day.
Here’s to the next 100 days of becoming a stronger cloud engineer! ☁️🚀

Commit message:

Add Day 26 entry for Nginx web server setup

100daysofcloud/README.md, after:

# 🚀 Kicking Off My **100DaysOfCloud** Journey!

![Screenshot 2025-12-12 091431](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2b797ae3-bdcf-467c-8dda-7dd112a53c9a)

Over the next 100 days, I’ll be diving deep into Cloud, DevOps, AWS, automation, and real-world hands-on labs.

Every day will bring:

* 🌩️ New lessons
* 🧩 A few challenges
* 📘 New concepts learned
* 📝 A daily update you can count on

This repository/thread will track my progress in a clean, open-source documentation style.
Follow along, learn with me, or even join the challenge!

---

## 📚 **Daily Progress Tracker**

| Day     | Topic / Task                                   | Status | Link         |
| ------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ------ | ------------ |
| Day 1   | Create Key Pair                                               | ✔️     | [Day 001](./Day_001:_Create_Key_Pair.md)   |
| Day 2   | Create Security Group                                         | ✔️     | [Day 002](./Day_002:_Create_Security_Group.md)   |
| Day 3   | Create Security Group                                         | ✔️     | [Day_003](./Day_002:_Create_Security_Group.md)   |
| Day 4   | Allocate Elastic IP                                           | ✔️     | [Day_004](./Day_004:_Allocate_Elastic_IP.md)   |
| Day 5   | Create GP3 Volume                                             | ✔️     | [Day_005](./Day_005:_Create_GP3_Volume.md)   |
| Day 6   | Launch EC2 Instance                                           | ✔️     | [Day_006](./Day_006:_Launch_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 7   | Change EC2 Instance Type                                      | ✔️     | [Day_007](./Day_007:_Change_EC2_Instance_Type.md)   |
| Day 8   | Enable Stop Protection for EC2 Instance                       | ✔️     | [Day_008](./Day_008:_Enable_Stop_Protection_for_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 9   | Enable Termination Protection for EC2 Instance                | ✔️     | [Day_009](./Day_009:_Enable_Termination_Protection_for_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 10  | Attach Elastic IP to EC2 Instance                             | ✔️     | [Day_010](./Day_010:_Attach_Elastic_IP_to_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 11  | Attach Elastic Network Interface to EC2 Instance              | ✔️     | [Day_011](./Day_011:_Attach_Elastic_Network_Interface_to_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 12  | Attach Volume to EC2 Instance                                 | ✔️     | [Day_012](./Day_012:_Attach_Volume_to_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 13  | Create AMI from EC2 Instance                                  | ✔️     | [Day_013](./Day_013:_Create_AMI_from_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 14  | Terminate EC2 Instance                                        | ✔️     | [Day_014](./Day_014:_Terminate_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 15  | Create Volume Snapshot                                        | ✔️     | [Day_015](./Day_015:_Create_Volume_Snapshot.md)   |
| Day 16  | Create IAM User                                               | ✔️     | [Day_016](./Day_016:_Create_IAM_User.md)   |
| Day 17  | Create IAM Group                                              | ✔️     | [Day_017](./Day_017:_Create_IAM_Group.md)   |
| Day 18  | Create Read-Only IAM Policy for EC2 Console Access            | ✔️     | [Day_018](./Day_018:_Create_Read-Only_IAM_Policy_for_EC2_Console_Access.md)   |
| Day 19  | Attach IAM Policy to IAM User                                 | ✔️     | [Day_019](./Day_019:_Attach_IAM_Policy_to_IAM_User.md)   |
| Day 20  | Create IAM Role for EC2 with Policy Attachment                | ✔️     | [Day_020](./Day_020:_Create_IAM_Role_for_EC2_with_Policy_Attachment.md)   |
| Day 21  | Setting Up an EC2 Instance with an Elastic IP for Application Hosting    | ✔️     | [Day_021](./Day_021:_Setting_Up_an_EC2_Instance_with_an_Elastic_IP_for_Application_Hosting.md)   |
| Day 22  | Configuring Secure SSH Access to an EC2 Instance              | ✔️     | [Day_022](./Day_022:_Configuring_Secure_SSH_Access_to_an_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 23  | Data Migration Between S3 Buckets Using AWS CLI               | ✔️     | [Day_023](./Day_023:_Data_Migration_Between_S3_Buckets_Using_AWS_CLI.md)   |
| Day 24  | Setting Up an Application Load Balancer for an EC2 Instance   | ✔️     | [Day 024](./Day_024:_Setting_Up_an_Application_Load_Balancer_for_an_EC2_Instance.md)   |
| Day 25  | Setting Up an EC2 Instance and CloudWatch Alarm               | ✔️     | [Day_025](./Day_025:_Setting_Up_an_EC2_Instance_and_CloudWatch_Alarm.md)   |
| Day 26  | Configuring an EC2 Instance as a Web Server with Nginx        | ✔️     | [Day_026](./Day_026:_Configuring_an_EC2_Instance_as_a_Web_Server_with_Nginx.md)   |
| ...     | ...                                                           | ...    | ...          |
| Day 100 | TBD                                                           | ⏳      | [Day 100](#) |

> 🔗 *Links will be updated daily as I complete each task.*

---

## 🛠️ **Main Learning Areas**

* AWS Cloud Fundamentals
* Linux, Networking, IAM, VPC
* Compute, Storage & Databases
* Containers (Docker) & Orchestration
* CI/CD, GitHub Actions
* Infrastructure Automation
* Monitoring, Logging & Cloud Security
* Hands-on Labs from **KodeKloud**



## 🔥 **Follow My Journey**
* 🌐 **Blog :** [Dev.to](https://dev.to/hritikraj8804)

## ⚡ Let’s Go!

Excited to learn, build, break things (intentionally 😄), fix them, and grow every single day.
Here’s to the next 100 days of becoming a stronger cloud engineer! ☁️🚀
